@c This is part of the netCDF documentation. See COPYRIGHT file
@c for terms of use.

@c This file is included by the manual texi files, and contains
@c common definitions.

@c $Id: defines.texi,v 1.16 2009/12/08 18:34:47 ed Exp $

@c The canonical name for each manual.
@set n-man The NetCDF Users Guide
@set c-man The NetCDF C Interface Guide
@set cxx-man The NetCDF C++ Interface Guide
@set cxx4-man The NetCDF-4 C++ Interface Guide
@set f77-man The NetCDF Fortran 77 Interface Guide
@set f90-man The NetCDF Fortran 90 Interface Guide
@set i-man The NetCDF Installation and Porting Guide
@set tut-man The NetCDF Tutorial
@set j-man The NetCDF Java User Manual

@c Support email.
@set netcdf-support-email support-netcdf@@unidata.ucar.edu
@set hdf5-support-email help@@hdfgroup.org

@c Home pages for internal stuff like netcdf, netcdf-4, netcdf java,
@c Unidata, etc.
@set unidata-url http://www.unidata.ucar.edu
@set netcdf-url @value{unidata-url}/netcdf
@set netcdf-4-url @value{netcdf-url}/netcdf-4
@set netcdf-java-url @value{unidata-url}/software/netcdf-java
@set ucar-url http://www.ucar.edu
@set uop-url http://www.uop.ucar.edu

@c External web pages.
@set hdf5-url http://hdfgroup.org/HDF5/
@set hdf5-tutorial-url @value{hdf5-url}/HDF5/Tutor
@set hdf5-download-url @value{hdf5-url}/HDF5/release/beta/obtain518.html
@set hdf5-szip-license-url http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/doc_resource/SZIP/Commercial_szip.html
@set hdf5-chunking-advice-url http://hdfeos.org/workshops/ws13/presentations/day1/HDF5-EOSXIII-Advanced-Chunking.ppt
@set cygwin-url http://www.cygwin.com
@set mingw-url http://www.mingw.org
@set mingw-faq @value{mingw-url}/mingwfaq.shtml
@set woe32-url http://www.haible.de/bruno/woe32dll.html
@set red-hat-w32-url http://www.redhat.com/docs/manuals/enterprise/RHEL-4-Manual/gnu-linker/win32.html
@set cf-url http://cf-pcmdi.llnl.gov
@set zlib-url http://www.zlib.net
@set curl-url http://curl.haxx.se
@set xml2-url http://xmlsoft.org
@set opendap-url http://opendap.org
@set pnetcdf-url http://www.mcs.anl.gov/parallel-netcdf

@c urls for netcdf documents
@set docs-url @value{netcdf-url}/docs
@set docs4-url @value{netcdf-url}/netcdf-4/newdocs
@set old-docs-url @value{netcdf-url}/old_docs
@set v2-docs-url @value{netcdf-url}/old_docs/really_old/guide_toc.html
@set pre360-install-url @value{old-docs-url}/INSTALL_pre_360.html
@set 360-install-url @value{old-docs-url}/docs_3_6_0/netcdf-install
@set 361-install-url @value{old-docs-url}/docs_3_6_1/netcdf-install
@set install-url @value{docs-url}/netcdf-install
@set netcdf-install-url @value{docs-url}/netcdf-install
@set netcdf-faq-url @value{netcdf-url}/faq.html
@set netcdf-shared-faq-url @value{netcdf-faq-url}#using_shared
@set netcdf-builds @value{netcdf-url}/builds
@set netcdf-other-builds @value{netcdf-url}/other-builds.html
@set netcdf-software-url @value{netcdf-url}/software.html
@set known-problems-url @value{docs-url}/known_problems.html
@set netcdf-java-man-url @value{netcdf-java-url}/v2.1/NetcdfJavaUserManual.htm

@c urls to search on-line stuff
@set netcdf-support-search-url /search.jsp?support&netcdf
@set netcdf-list-search-url /search.jsp?netcdfgroup

@c places to get downloads
@set ftp-site ftp://ftp.unidata.ucar.edu/pub/netcdf
@set netcdf4-ftp-site @value{ftp-site}/netcdf-4
@set netcdf-binaries-url @value{unidata-url}/downloads/netcdf/index.jsp 
@set windows-ftp-site @value{ftp-site}/contrib/win32

@c Tools mentioned in the netCDF tutorial.
@set idv-url http://www.unidata.ucar.edu/software/idv
@set udunits-url http://www.unidata.ucar.edu/software/udunits
@set ncl-url http://www.ncl.ucar.edu
@set nco-url http://nco.sourceforge.net
@set grads-url http://grads.iges.org/grads/grads.html

@setchapternewpage odd
@finalout
@copying 
Copyright @copyright{} 2005-2009 University Corporation for
Atmospheric Research

@sp 2
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided that the copyright notice and these paragraphs are
preserved on all copies.  The software and any accompanying written 
materials are provided ``as is'' without warranty of any kind.  UCAR 
expressly disclaims all warranties of any kind, either expressed or 
implied, including but not limited to the implied warranties of 
merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose.  

The Unidata Program Center is managed by the University 
Corporation for Atmospheric Research and sponsored by the National 
Science Foundation.  Any opinions, findings, conclusions, or 
recommendations expressed in this publication are those of the 
author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National 
Science Foundation.

Mention of any commercial company or product in this document 
does not constitute an endorsement by the Unidata Program Center.  
Unidata does not authorize any use of information from this 
publication for advertising or publicity purposes.
@end copying
